{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f4\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Oblique;\f5\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red19\green19\blue19;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Matlab to calculate w_0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 B = xlsread('omega_0.xls', 'G:H'); load the data from excel file into a vector B.  In excel, I cut off the useless head and tail of the data, so all there is is the part in the middle with the extremely underdamped decay. (the micrometer was set to 12 or so, and the damping plate was at least 1 cm from the magnet).  \
E = B(:,7);% get time data into one vector\
F = B(:,8);% get position data into another vector\
plot (E,F)% plot the two together\
\
OK, now we have the plot, what comes next?  Well, we can't find zeros directly from a time series, we need to fit a function to it, and find the zeros of that function.  It is my belief that a function of the form f(t) = A exp(bt) Sin(ct + d) should work, but I have no idea how to make the computer fit that.  I 
\f2\i do 
\f1\i0 know how to find a and b, and then I guess I could adjust c and d myself?  Lets try it?  \
\
(oh, but first I need to perfect the technique for finding peaks and the resultant decaying exponential - see "Matlab to find peaks explained"). \
\
Recall, this was lucas' program:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f3 \cf0 x=load('MWWheel01Nov11_2010');\
[pks,loc]=findpeaks(x(:,2));\
[n,xout]=hist(pks,100);
\f1 \
\
(oh, and to do that, I need to figure out how to compile two vectors together.  Perhaps that's what [pks, loc] does in lucas's version.]\
\
G = horzcat(E,F)\

\f3 [pks,loc]=findpeaks(G(:,2))\
\
ok, that was good, we're getting closer, what it did was find the peaks and their indices.  Now I need to learn how to make a new vector H of a specific set of elements of a current matrix, and take the indicated elements from column 
\f4\i 1
\f3\i0  of G, then concatenate pks and H into the subset of G, which is the peaks.  These can be plotted to find the a and b of the exponential.  \
\
%H = G([8,37,63,85,110,161,261,311,334],1) %this one is particular to this problem, the next one is better in general.  \
H = G(loc,1)%take the indicated elements of the first column, which are the timestamps of the peak data.  \
\
\
I = horzcat(H,skp) %horizontally concatenate the timestamps and peak heights, now, I is a matrix with these ordered pairs in the first and second columns.  \
\
\
skp=pks' %pks was a row-vector, skp is column\
I = horzcat(H,skp)%concatenate these two into the set of ordered pairs we want to find the exponential function of.\
\
I =\
\
    0.1250   40.3200\
    0.6875   23.7600\
    1.1719   16.1100\
    1.6406   12.3300\
    2.1094   10.1700\
    3.0781    7.2000\
    4.9375    2.7000\
    5.8438    1.3500\
    6.2812    0.8100\
\
\
\
cla %clears the data off the axes, and anything else that might have been there.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\ql\qnatural

\f5\fs22 \cf2 J = 3 %J should equal the first peak whose amplitude was less than 15 degrees. This is because the small angle approximation is only valid for these points, (99 percent accurate for 15 degrees or less).\
expo = fit(I([J:end],1),I([J:end],2),'exp1') %we need to use only data points J thru the end \
hold on %plots multiple graphs on the same axes (scaling them if need be).\
plot (expo)\
plot (I([J:end],1),I([J:end],2)) %plots the data points as well, for good measure.  \
hold off\
\
And it returns this: \
\
expo = \
\
     General model Exp1:\
       expo(x) = a*exp(b*x)\
     Coefficients (with 95% confidence bounds):\
       a =       27.94  (24.23, 31.66)\
       b =     -0.4775  (-0.549, -0.406)\
\
Remember X is the time-axis in this case, and Y is \\theta.  This is the exponential envelope that controls the overall size of the decaying sinusoidal dataset.  \
\
So the entire program is this: \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 B = xlsread('omega_0.xls', 'G:H');\
E = B(:,7);
\f5\fs22 \cf2 \

\f1\fs24 \cf0 F = B(:,8);\
plot (E,F);\
G = horzcat(E,F);\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f3 \cf0 [pks,loc]=findpeaks(G(:,2));\
H = G(loc,1);\
skp=pks';\
I = horzcat(H,skp);\
cla \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\ql\qnatural

\f5\fs22 \cf2 J = 3; \
expo = fit(I([J:end],1),I([J:end],2),'exp1')\
hold on\
plot (expo)\
plot (I([J:end],1),I([J:end],2)) \
hold off\
\
Hmmm\'85it's giving me a warning about importing from excel, and the graph doesn't look quite right, but the numbers for the exponential are perfect, so I'm not complaining.  \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
OK, if I was going to send this to Lucas for help, what would I do?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\ql\qnatural

\f5\fs22 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 B = xlsread('omega_0.xls', 'G:H');\
E = B(:,7);
\f5\fs22 \cf2 \

\f1\fs24 \cf0 F = B(:,8);\
G = horzcat(E,F);\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f3 \cf0 [pks,loc]=findpeaks(G(:,2));\
H = G(loc,1);\
skp=pks';\
I = horzcat(H,skp);\
cla \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\ql\qnatural

\f5\fs22 \cf2 J = 3; \
expo = fit(I([J:end],1),I([J:end],2),'exp1')\
hold on\
plot (expo)\
plot (I([J:end],1),I([J:end],2)) \
hold off}